<div style="text-align: justify;">  

The Digital Force Index (DFI) was calculated using Item Response Theory (IRT). IRT takes in binary items, and gives us a continuous latent, unobservable variable. In our case the binary items were the presence (1) or no presence (0) of a technology within a police agency. The continuous latent variable, we called the Digital Force Index, since it is high when agencies have technologies that are more likely to cause harm, such as Drones and Ring/ Neighbor Partnership, and low when accountability technologies, like Body-Worn Cameras, are present. The assumptions we hold when using the IRT method are (1) that the rarer a technology in our dataset, the technology may be more invasive, (2) a technology may produce a higher DFI if it is also correlated to the other items, or (3) a technology may be so rare that will drop out of the model completely.  

To further illustrate the relationship of each technology with the DFI below we have included the traceplots, which plot the distribution of the DFI as the technology transitions from 0 to 1. For steep, sharp transitions, like the Body-Worn Cameras show here, we know that the model is depending heavily on this technology. When Body-Worn Cameras are present (1 on the vertical axis) the DFI is low and when Body-Worn Cameras are not present (0 on the vertical axis) the DFI is either medium or high. Importantly, the relationship between Body-Worn Cameras and DFI is inverse to that of other technologies which are shown below. The IRT model was able to capture the use of Body-Worn Cameras, despite its prevalence, as variable less likely to cause harm.    

Here you can see technologies such as, Ring/ Neighbors Partnerships and Drones have a steep but not sharp transition from a low DFI to a high DFI, suggesting that the model is also depending heavily on technologies. Inversely to Body-Worn Cameras, as Ring/ Neighbors Partnerships or Drones increases the DFI also increases. In other words, when an agency is using Ring/ Neighbors Partnerships or Drones, they are using more digital force against their citizens.  

Additionally, technologies like Predictive Policing, Fusion Centers, and Automated License Plate Readers have a moderate to high effect on the model, while Face Recognition and Camera Registry have a moderate effect of the model. Finally, technologies such as, Cell-site Stimulators, Video Analytics, Gunshot Detection, Real-Time Crime Centers, are shown here to have little to no effect on our model, fitting our assumption (3) a technology may be so rare that will drop out of the model completely.

</div>